[MUSIC PLAYING]
Chrome 50 adds support for
payloads and push messages
and adds new features
to notifications.
You can preload important
resources with the link
rel=preload tag and the canvas
element gets an upgrade.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 50.
Push notifications
allow you to trigger
system-level notifications
in the same way
that native applications do.
In Chrome 50, you can now
include an encrypted data
payload with the
push, eliminating
the need for the service
worker to fetch the data needed
for the notification.
And it's already supported by
Firefox using the web push API.
You can now dismiss
notifications across devices
when closed by the
user on one device
and you have more
control over how
notifications look and behave.
You can set icons on actions,
set custom time stamps,
and even specify whether the
device should vibrate or make
a sound.
Have you ever wanted
to let the browser know
about an important font,
script, or other resource that
will be needed later without
delaying the onload event?
Chrome now supports the
link rel=preload tag.
A W3C draft spec that allows
you to tell the browser which
resources should be
preemptively downloaded
and can reduce the time to
get real content on screen.
Link rel=preload replaces
link rel=subresource,
which had a number of bugs and
drawbacks and wasn't supported
by other browsers.
The canvas element now
supports the toBlob method,
which means instead
of manipulating
Base64 encoded strings that
you get from toDataURL,
you can now work with the
encoded binary data directly.
It's smaller and tends to fit
more use cases than a data URI.
Not only can you more easily
upload them to your server,
or store them in
IndexedDB for later use,
you can draw the image blobs
to another canvas context
with the create image
bitmap API, supported today
in Chrome and Firefox.
One other quick note.
The geolocation APIs are
now only accessible when
served from a secure origin.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 50
for developers.
Check the description
for more details
and be sure to
like and subscribe.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 51 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.
[MUSIC PLAYING]